# DSL template

A template module for the `:dsl` module.

**Do NOT modify the production code of the `:dsl` module directly.**
Instead, modify this template module.
Tests, however, are written in the `:dsl` module and not in `:dsl-template`.

This module is not published.

## The problem

The `:dsl` module contains the 'meat' of the KtMongo project: the entire operator DSL, including aggregation support.

To be convenient for users, we regularly need to provide multiple overloads of each operator. For example, the type `Field<T, V>` represents a path to a field:

```kotlin
users.find {
	User::profile / Profile::age eq 20
	// ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
	// Field("profile.age")
}
```

The `Field` interface allows complex path generation. However, top-level properties inherently are typed as `KProperty1<T, V>`, as they are a Kotlin feature. We cannot control that type.

```kotlin
users.find {
	User::name eq "Bob"
	// ^^^^^^^
	// KProperty1<User, String>("name")
}
```

Therefore, we need an overload:

```kotlin
infix fun <V> KProperty1<T, V>.eq(value: V) {
	this.field eq value
}
```

where `KProperty1<T, V>.field` is the conversion function.

All regular operators (filters, updates, projections, indexes…) need both `Field` and `KProperty1` overloads.
However, aggregation operators go even further, requiring four overloads:

- `opensavvy.ktmongo.dsl.aggregation.Value<T, V>` (the actual type of aggregation expressions)
- `opensavvy.ktmongo.dsl.path.Field<T, V>`
- `kotlin.reflect.KProperty1<T, V>`
- `T`

Note that the last two are not our types, so it isn't possible to create a supertype. `T` isn't even a known type.

Additionally, KotlinX.Serialization must know the compile-time type of any serialized value. This can only be accessed in an `inline` function, so all of these require additional `inline` overloads.

## The solution

Instead of developing the DSL module directly, all production code is written in this template module.
On each build, the `:dsl` module is regenerated by copying this template module, adding all the necessary overloads in the process.

The templating engine is implemented in the [dsl-templator](../gradle/conventions/dsl-templator) Gradle plugin.
It is executed by running `./gradlew :dsl:applyTemplate`.
